Hey everyone, welcome back to finally the tutorial on how to rebuild a
successful app
from scratch.
Now, a slight change of plan, we will be rebuilding Cal AI from scratch,
focusing on
like the fundamental feature, which pretty much is the taking a picture of your
food
and estimating the calories instead of you next.
The reason for this is because OpenAI at chat GBT, they are limiting me from
raising other
people's faces, which is totally fair and there's not a problem.
Cal AI, a little bit of background, Cal AI makes three and a half million
dollars a month,
they have almost 10 million downloads and I'm going to run you through exactly
how I
would rebuild it from scratch and how I would, like what kind of version I
would launch into
the market if I wanted to make a competitor, for example.
Now, I will preface this by saying I don't suggest you make a competitor to Cal
AI.
I mean, even if you do, like there is a lot of competition and a lot of people
have tried
and failed, but I want you to more use this tutorial as a kind of a visual
representation
on how you can build a super successful app from scratch and then you can
translate these
same concepts, these same execution I'm doing now into other ideas and other
apps.
So let's get started.
The first thing you need to do is to download Xcode and once you've downloaded
it, go to
the top left to click settings and log into Apple account.
You log in by clicking this plus icon on the bottom left, clicking Apple
account, continue
and then entering your details.
Super simple stuff.
Once you've done that, you will click create new project app next, call it Cal
AI or whatever
else you want to call it and then make sure you come up with your own
organization identifier.
You can do like calm dot Slater or calm dot mafia or calm dot whatever else,
but it's totally
unique and you need to come up with your own name.
This can't be repeated by other people and you can't just copy the one I've
written down.
So I'm just going to do mafia tutorial.
You can leave all of this as a standard and then choose a folder and
destination where
you'd want to code in.
So I'm happy with the GitHub folder.
So I'll just click create bottom right and boom, your app is now live and in
business.
So this is going to load a preview of what you're coding on the left side and
like this
will show, okay, so the left side is the back end and the right side is the
front end.
Everything you're typing on the left side will display itself in some shape or
form on
the front end if you're building the front end view.
Obviously like the functions and stuff you won't be able to like see.
But as you can see, if I just changed this from hello world to hello mafia,
this update
in real time and you can see exactly what you are building, which is super cool
.
So the way I usually like to start building apps is kind of mapping up the
design first
and you know, people can say that this isn't necessarily productive, but I like
to do it
because it gives me a vision of what the app is and that inspires me to and
motivates
me to keep building, keep building, keep building.
Whereas if you're just working on a feature and the rest of it isn't built, you
might
be like, eh, I'm not super happy with this.
But if you start creating a brand around it and start doing the designs, it
feels more
real and more tangible and that pushes you to keep building.
At least that's how I operate.
So I'm going to start with like fontway dot bold dot font dot title.
And if you've watched this tutorial, I suggested earlier, like these concepts
are really easy
to understand.
I'm not going to go into details on how to code, but I will kind of give you a
little
bit of that kind of what I'm doing when necessary.
So okay, so that's the title.
We'll do a spacer and then we'll do a button with the label of an image.
And this is when you open SF symbols.
I told you guys down at this earlier.
So open SF symbols and we're going to go for a camera icon.
So we'll do camera dot circle.
Is there a circle dot fill?
Let's see.
Circle dot fill.
Okay, there is.
So I'm going to copy this, this name.
I'm going to do image, system name.
Actually, I'm going to make this a bit bigger for you guys.
Image, system name, camera dot circle dot fill.
So as you can see, time the little circle in the corner now.
Great.
Now we'll do dot resizable, scalps at fit, frame, width.
I'm going to say width 45.
Is that big enough?
No.
90.
Okay.
So it's a fine balance.
That's all good.
And then for the color, I'm going to go red.
Cool.
Like a little like camera red recording icon, which is sick.
Okay.
Now inside this, inside this bracket, you do the logic, which we'll get to very
, very
soon.
So what this should do is you click on this, it will then open your camera and
there should
be another button where you can click and snap a photo.
That photo should then be sent back to the chat GBT API and then that will
analyze the
calories and estimate it.
And then you'll take that data that chat GBT is analyzed also where it's like
estimated
the calories and display that on the front end for the user.
So that's our objective today.
And then we'll get into the payroll everything else soon.
So let's stop the linkers.
So what I would do is take this logic.
Actually, we'll just copy that entire file.
And then we go to chat GBT.com.
I'll close this.
Hey, chat GBT.
I'm coding a calorie tracker app and I want you to write me the code for a
function that
allows me to press the button shown below, pull up the camera and when a photo
is snapped,
it should send it back to the chat GBT API and estimate the calories and also
display
the name of the food item it sees.
Don't use any packages.
Just use a standard API call.
And then I'm going to send it my code.
Maybe I could have written this better, but like it doesn't have to be perfect.
If you ask it a question and it fucks up or isn't the result you're expecting,
you can
always go back and say, hey, can we change this or I meant this thing or I
meant to say
or, you know, explain the bug.
Like if this doesn't work, just be like, okay, look, it didn't estimate the
calories.
It estimated the width of the food, whatever it is.
But the prompt doesn't have to be perfect.
At least that's my take.
So I would post this.
Let's see what it says.
I'll be waiting.
Silo, chat GBT5 takes a hell of a long time to apply it.
Honestly, I love photo because it was incredibly accurate and fast.
So, you know, it is what it is.
But apparently chat GBT5 makes less mistakes and thinks deeper about certain
topics.
So you don't have to keep going back and forth because it did make the
occasional mistakes.
Okay, this is important.
You got to, so I'll give you a quick background.
For Apple, you need to clearly state why you're using certain features.
For example, the camera or the microphone or the photo library.
You need to add and do this with me.
Copy NSCameraUseThisDescription.
Go to Xcode.
Click Cali top left if that's what you named it.
Go into info.
Click this plus icon.
Paste it in.
Click return.
It should then pull up the full name and then you can write.
We use your camera so you can take a picture of food and estimate the calories
bomb.
You need to do this.
Otherwise your camera won't work.
Straight up.
Very essential.
Okay, well, let's send me a massive, massive code.
Result.
And it's all in one file which isn't optimal, but for the sake of the tutorial,
I think it's
clearer and easier.
So we're going to stick with this.
Okay, it's just finished.
So I would copy this.
And by the way, this whole chat will be in the course material.
So you can go into this and also copy the exact code I'm taking here right now.
And then copy and paste the entire file back into it.
And let's see any errors.
Two errors.
So what I would do is I would copy the errors if you do get them and they are
occasional,
but they do happen.
I'm just going to show you how to navigate this.
You'd post.
I got two errors.
Fix these for me, please.
And I'm going to paste the errors.
And it should know what's causing it.
Like it should have the knowledge and intelligence to find out what is causing
it and fix it for
us.
You know what we can do in the meantime?
We can go to platform.openai.com.
For that form.openai.com.
Make an account if you haven't already in the top right, there should be a
button to create
an account.
Okay, look, as you can see the sign up, do that.
I already have an account so I don't, ooh, it would log me out.
Oh, am I an incognito?
I am my bad.
Platform.openai.com.
Once you're assigned in, go to, I believe, Manage Projects.
Yep, API Keys and then create a new secret key.
I'm going to call this one Cal AI clone and just pick the quota project.
This will create a secret key.
Usually you can't reveal this, but I'm like, I'm going to delete this
afterwards, but
copy the key and make sure you paste it into, whoa, like, into this.
Your open AI API key.
So we'll do that right now.
That's how ChaiJubitin knows which account to build.
So incredibly important and you won't be able to do your functional call about
it.
It's very important to know as well.
Okay, let's get back to it.
All right, so we're sending back the full fixed file, which means we're going
to need
to paste in the opening idea again, but that's not an issue.
Takes like a second.
By the way, I intend to keep this process very raw and uncut just because like
this is
like the real grind.
You are seeing like directly behind the scenes of the building process.
And like if I do fast cuts, a lot of you guys won't understand.
And I think it's very important to see the building process in its flaws, in
its successes.
I kind of, kind of adjust of how long it takes, but we'll always through this
like eventually.
Once it gets it right, that's like the bulk of the work.
All right, cool.
Hopefully this works.
So paste it in and no errors.
Great.
All right.
Now let's go back to our API key, copy it and then paste it in the your opening
API, such
a tongue twister, your opening API API key.
All right, paste it in, bomb and run of ships running to my phone.
Oh no.
Okay.
I've just run it on the simulator.
So let's see how it looks.
Simulators are a little bit different to the preview by the way, but I like
using the
simulator more.
All right, so let's test camera, boom, camera right there.
Amazing.
Which is great and should work, but because it's in the simulator and it has no
physical
camera, you won't be able to see what it's doing.
So what we should do is run this.
I'm going to say great.
It works.
Now please add functionality to upload stuff from your photo library as well.
In the meantime, I'm going to find a picture of food on the simulator.
Picture of lasagna.
Actually, lasagna is like so misleading because everything's like melted
together, but we'll
try it.
We'll do this, this picture.
Just going to hold down on it, click save to photos.
This is just for the tutorial, by the way, usually in practice when people have
their
real phones, they could just take a picture, very simple, but for the safety of
the tutorial,
I will show you how this works.
Okay.
So it's going to send like the full complete code again.
Is that right?
Seems like it.
It should be fast at this time because it's only changing a few lines, but then
we will
need to find our API key again.
I'm going to tell it in future if there are any more changes we need to do
after this
to just use the API key that I provided.
But like, I hope this is an example of like, it's not super complex.
Like yes, there's a lot of back and forth from repetition and trying to like
mold the
AI to do what you want, but that's the game.
And once it's built once, sorry, she's the same word twice, once it's built
once I suppose,
you don't need to really build it again.
It's just slight improvements that you have to make, but once I've built this
feature,
I can just change the code slightly to improve it.
Like I don't need to get this entire thing written, written, written again,
have to keep
going back to AI.
I just make small changes.
And what I will say as well, once you've built this app, this example, you can
just
go out there and market it.
You don't need to do much else.
Like it can be very simple.
As long as it helps a select few people and makes their life maybe 5 to 10%
better, that's
all that matters.
And like the distribution of having an AI to estimate the calories, even if it
isn't
perfect, is super helpful.
Even if it sucks, it can suck.
Cal AI launched and it launched with one feature and the tracking wasn't great.
They slowly started improving it, but they still made hundreds of thousands of
dollars
before that point.
So I wouldn't over index on getting the technical part, right?
I'm, you know, like, I'd focus on just building MVP.
Okay, so that should be good.
And again, I'm going to have to get my API key annoying, but hey, all good.
So here we go, paste it in, run it on the simulator.
By the way, to run, I'm using command R. So it's the Apple symbol on your
keyboard plus
the letter R.
Okay, let's see.
Here we go.
So now I can choose from library and I'm going to select the, that's me, I'm
going to select
the lasagna and it's saying analyzing.
Boom.
We have fucking built Cal AI.
Okay.
That's how you do it.
Right?
I'm launching a competitor, Blake and Zach and Henry and Jake watch out because
my Cal AI
is going to destroy the market.
I'm going to make way more money than you and you guys suck.
I'm going to go back here.
That is come on now.
All right.
Awesome boys.
We have something tangible.
Now there are, there are a bunch of improvements and changes you can make.
How much of it is totally relevant?
I don't know, but like I'm telling you and I know this sucks, but you could
fully go
to market with this product right now and how long did it take me?
Like 17 minutes and that's just with like a bit of back and forth of AI.
17 minutes and I've built the main feature that Cal AI made hundreds of
thousands of
dollars with.
There we go.
This is the new age of software boys.
Welcome to the fucking mafia.
New age.
Okay.
Great.
Now let's go back to our course assignment.
(keyboard clicking)
Alright, well it looks like that's it for the core feature.
Like we built it, boys.
We have built it.
And we can do another test real quick,
just for reference.
Let's get like ice cream.
Ice cream.
Let's see if this works as well.
So we're gonna images.
(grunts)
We'll get this ice cream, that's good.
But if it estimates the hand, that'll be so funny.
How many calories do you think are in a hand?
Alright, bomb.
Analyzing.
Let's go.
Chocolate ice cream.
There we fucking go, boys.
Okay.
Next module, we'll go through the paywall and onboarding.
And we'll show you guys how to make money and how to turn this free product,
and easy to use product, paywall it.
And then before the paywall just convince people why this is relevant to them,
and why they should pay.
See you, boys.
[BLANK_AUDIO]